Let's now go ahead and
visualize the behavior
of the WordSearcher
findWords method.
And this will provide us with
a way of literally visualizing
what's happening when
the program runs.
And as I mentioned
before, I really
like these visualizations
because you
help to see what's happening
under the hood in a way that
might not be quite so intuitive
just by reading the source
code.
So as you can see,
the findWord method
is used to search for
words in the input string.
Keep in mind, in this
case, the input string
is the complete lyrics to
the song, "The Do-Re-Mi Song"
from The Sound of Music.
And what is given as input to
findWords is the list of words
that you actually want to find.
So that's the Do-Re-Mi,
and so on, string--
list of strings.
The first thing
we're going to do
is we're to take
that list of strings
and we're going to
use the stream factory
method to convert that list
collection into a stream.
Since we're using that
stream factory method,
we create a sequential string.
So now we have a
stream of strings.
That's the output from
the stream factory method.
That stream of strings is
then fed as input into the map
intermediate operation.
And the map intermediate
operation then
uses the searchForWord method
reference as its behavior,
and goes ahead and calls
searchForWord for every word
in the stream.
So for every word in the
stream, the map operation
invokes the searchForWord
behavior or method reference
to find if that word
occurs in the stream.
What searchForWord does--
and we'll take a look at how
searchForWord is
defined a bit later--
what searchForWord does is
it goes ahead and searches
in the stream--
sorry, in the input string.
And if it finds a
match, it records it.
And what it returns is something
called a search result which
is an object that stores
the number of times
a word appeared in
the input string.
And so it doesn't only
store the number of times,
it also stores the location
where the word appeared.
And we're going to be using
search result through a number
of different case studies.
So it's important,
at least, to have
a general idea of what it does.
Now, one of the things
you'll notice here
is that if you look at the
visualization of the stream,
we went from a
stream of strings--
which I show here as
just the gray squares--
to a stream of
search results, which
I show as kind of the round
bronzy-gold looking circles.
And that's just
indicating that we've
changed the type of
elements in the stream,
just literally by changing the
shape, just to visualize it.
So we end up with a stream
of these search results.
And we'll see this later,
that the map operation
can be used to transform types.
It doesn't have to
transform the types,
but it can be used
to transform types.
And we use it, in this case,
to transform the types.
The next thing
we're going to do is
we're going to take the
stream of search results
and we're going to
essentially connect it
to the filter
intermediate operation.
And what filter will do is
it will only allow elements
in the stream to pass
through the filter
if they match the predicate.
So what we're
basically doing here
is we're removing empty search
results from the stream.
So if something is
empty, then it's
going to be removed
from the stream.
Now for this particular
example, of course,
we're going to
find all the words
because we're only looking for
the words that are in the song.
But more generally,
we could be looking
for words that
might not actually
be in the input string.
So it's possible that
the output of filter
will be smaller than
the input to filter,
because we may filter out
some of the things that
don't match the predicate.
So what we'll end up
with here is a stream
of non-empty search results.
So only things that
actually had a result
are going to show up
in the output stream.
And then the final
piece of the puzzle
is the collect operation.
Now collect is what's
called a terminal operation,
and it does several things.
First of all, it takes the
stream of non-empty search
results, and the first
thing that collect does
is it actually triggers
the intermediate operation
processing.
So this is a little
counterintuitive
at first, but what
that means is that none
of the intermediate
operations in the stream
even start to run until
collect is reached.
And I'll talk a little bit later
about how this actually works,
in terms of the streams
internal implementation details.
But for now, logically
speaking, the wheels
start to churn when
collect is hit.
And what collect
does is it ends up
collecting the stream of input
into a list of non-empty search
results.
And it does that by calling the
toList factory method, which
creates a non-concurrent
collector-- which
we'll talk about later.
And that non-concurrent
collector, in this case,
will accumulate all the
non-empty search results
into an array list.
And that's what gets returned
as the result of collect.
So that's the final
termination of the processing.
Now one of the things to note
here-- and I'll come back
and we'll explore this from a
couple different points of view
because it's a little bit
subtle, and in some sense, even
misleading at first.
The way I describe
the processing made
it sound like the
streams framework
takes the elements in the
stream and processes them
in each level, each
layer, from left to right.
So it sounds like each
row or each level of data
is processed from left to right.
That's kind of what it
sounds like if you just
look at this thing.
In fact, that's not
how it works at all.
The streams framework
actually works
by pulling the data
from the source
through each
aggregate operation,
applying the various processing
steps to filter, transform,
or whatnot--
sort, whatever
needs to be done--
the elements as they
flow through the stream.
And the reason it
actually works this way,
as opposed to working
like layer by layer--
the reason it does it by pulling
it from the source through all
the intermediate
operation processing--
is that turns out
to be much more
efficient from the point
of view of cash efficiency
and something known as
integrated layer processing.
And most importantly,
it also supports
so-called short
circuit operations.
So it's actually possible
to short circuit steps.
Some of the
intermediate operations,
some of the terminal
operations can
actually short
circuit, which means
that they don't actually--
they stop processing after a
certain condition is satisfied.
And so by doing
things this way, you
can instantly stop the
processing the moment something
short circuits.
Whereas if you were doing
things layer by layer,
you would have to process all
this data, which would just be
thrown away at the next phase.
So this turns out
to be more efficient
and is the way that things
actually work under the hood.
The other reason why
it's done this way is it
makes it much easier to paralyze
the processing in a very
efficient manner as well.
But we won't really
get to that until we
get to the parallel streams
discussion in subsequent weeks.